📝 Write new canvas blog post (#11)
thibthib/thibaut.io: pages/react-canvas-components.mdx

import { RandomHexagons } from '../components/hexagons/RandomHexagons';
import { EditOnCodeSandbox } from '../components/EditOnCodeSandbox';
import { css } from '@emotion/core';

export const meta = {
  title: 'React + Canvas = 💜',
  description: 'an untold love story',
  date: 'January 12, 2019',
};

> The `<canvas/>` HTML element can be used to draw graphics with a finer control than the usual DOM or SVG. But with React, trying to draw on a canvas is not intuitive as their interfaces are quite different. With React, each component own their node contrary to canvas where there is only one shared node, and we draw in it. Let's see how we can make a canvas visualization with React components !

Reviewer: - "each component *owns* their node, as opposed to canvas ..."
- ".. one shared node that we can use for drawing"

> The `<canvas/>` HTML element can be used to draw graphics with a finer control than with the usual DOM or SVG. But trying to draw on a canvas with React is not intuitive, as their interfaces are quite different. With React, we build components that each own their own node. With canvas, there is only one node, and we draw in it. Let's see how we can make a canvas visualisation with React components !

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `<canvas/>` HTML element can be used to draw graphics with a finer control than the usual DOM or SVG. But with React, trying to draw on a canvas is not intuitive as their interfaces are quite different. With React, each component own their node contrary to canvas where there is only one shared node, and we draw in it. Let's see how we can make a canvas visualization with React components !
```

## 🧑‍🏫 Canvas 101

> The `canvas` element is like a sheet of paper. To draw in real life, we take a pen, we move our hand to a first position, and draw a line by moving our hand to another position. The browser API to draw on a canvas is actually very similar. We first need to make a blueprint of the shape we want to draw (like using a wood pencil), and then we can color it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `canvas` element is like a sheet of paper. To draw in real life, you would take a pen, move your hand to a first position, and draw a line by moving your hand to another position. The browser API to draw on a canvas is actually very similar. We first need to make a blueprint of the shape we want to draw (like using a wood pencil), and then we can color it.
```

> The `canvas` element is like a sheet of paper. To draw in real life, you would take a pen, move your hand to a first position, and draw a line by moving your hand to another position. The browser API to draw on a canvas is actually very similar. We first need to make a blueprint of the shape we want to draw (like using a wood pencil), and then we can color it.

Reviewer: - ".. in real life you would" (i.e. remove the comma)
- "wood pencil" - "real pencil" is probably better
- "and then we can color it" - "that can later be colored in" 
-

Author: re: "wood pencil" I meant something that does not really leaves a trace, that you can erase if you want. What would be a good way of describing that ?

Reviewer: You can always do that with a pencil, whether it's wood or not :)

```js
// moving our hand to the starting position
canvasContext.moveTo(x1, y1);
// drawing a blueprint line to the finishing position
canvasContext.lineTo(x2, y2);
// taking a purple pen and coloring the line
canvasContext.strokeStyle = 'purple';
canvasContext.stroke();
```

> Having imperative code like this in a component oriented codebase can be tricky ! Let's create a component that renders a `<canvas />` on the page. Then, we need to call the `moveTo` and `lineTo` methods on it to draw a line. In practice, it's a bit more complicated to bridge those two. We need to use a [React reference](https://thibaut.io/react-refs-evolution) to access the canvas DOM node, then need to get a 2D context out of it, and finally we can call our drawing methods. The code looks like that:

Reviewer: - "component-oriented" (with the dash) and no space before the exclamation mark
- " Let's create a component that renders a `<canvas />` on the page. Then, we need to call the `moveTo` and `lineTo` methods on it to draw a line." ==> "We would need to create a component that renders a `<canvas />` on the page and then call the `moveTo` and `lineTo` methods on it to draw a line."
- "to access the canvas DOM node, then need to get a 2D context out of it ... and finally" => "to access the canvas DOM node and to retrieve a 2D context from it; we are then able to call our drawing methods"
- "the code would look something like this:"

> Having imperative code like this in a component oriented codebase can be tricky ! Let's create a component that renders a `<canvas />` on the page. Then, we need to call the `moveTo` and `lineTo` methods on it to draw a line. In practice, it's a bit more complicated to bridge those two. We need to use a [React reference](https://thibaut.io/react-refs-evolution) to access the canvas DOM node. We then need to get a 2D context out of it, and then finally we can call our drawing methods. The code looks like that:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Having imperative code like this in a component oriented codebase can be tricky ! Let's create a component that renders a `<canvas />` on the page. Then, we need to call the `moveTo` and `lineTo` methods on it to draw a line. In practice, it's a bit more complicated to bridge those two. We need to use a [React reference](https://thibaut.io/react-refs-evolution) to access the canvas DOM node, then need to get a 2D context out of it, and finally we can call our drawing methods. The code looks like that:
```

```jsx basic-canvas-hs3cy src/App.js
const Canvas = () => {
  // we use a ref to access the canvas' DOM node
  const canvasRef = React.useRef(null);

  React.useEffect(() => {
    const context = canvasRef.current.getContext('2d');
    // ...drawing using the context
  }, [canvasRef]);

  return <canvas ref={canvasRef} />;
};
```

> But if we want to draw something a bit more complex, the `Canvas` component can become quite large. Usually, big components are split into several child components. Yet here, this is not possible as there is only one `canvas` node.

Reviewer: "Yet here, this" => remove comma

## 🎨 Hexagons

To show how to make child components with canvas, let's draw something more fancy ✨

<div
  style={{
    height: '360px',
    width: '100%',
  }}
>
  <RandomHexagons isAnimating={true} />
</div>

> A single hexagon is defined with the folowing data:

Reviewer: - You repeat the word "define" a lot in this section

> - a position on the screen, defined by two `x` and `y` number values

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A position on the screen, defined by two `x` and `y` number values.
```

> - a `radius` that will define its size

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A `radius` that defines its size.
```

> - a `rotation` so that all hexagons don't look aligned

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A `rotation` so that all hexagons don't look aligned.
```

> - and finally, a `color`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A `color`.
```

> We need a function that is able to generate some random hexagons to display. The randomisation code is not relevant here, let's assume we have a way to get an array of hexagons. As for how to draw the shape of an hexagon, we need to draw a line between all its corners, and then fill it with a color:

Reviewer: - Don't need "to display"
- "The randomisation code is not relevant here, let's assume  .." => "The randomisation code is not relevant here; let's just assume  ..."
- " As for how to draw the shape of an hexagon, we need to draw" => " As for how to draw the shape of an hexagon - we need to draw a line between all its corners and then fill it with a color" (ie. add a dash and remove a comma)

```jsx
// This article explains all the math behind hexagons
// https://www.redblobgames.com/grids/hexagons/
const corners = getHexagonCorners(x, y, radius, rotation);

context.beginPath();
corners.forEach((corner, index) => {
  if (index === 0) {
    context.moveTo(corner.x, corner.y);
  } else {
    context.lineTo(corner.x, corner.y);
  }
});
context.fillStyle = color;
context.fill();
```

> Now, how could we extract this logic into its own `Hexagon` component ? We need the canvas' context to draw anything on it. We could pass it to all the child components via a prop, but this approach can be a bit tedious when children are nested. Another way of doing this is by using a [React context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) to share "global" values between components.

Reviewer: - Take out "Now" and remove space before exclamation point
- "canvas'" => "canvas's" 
- "The component would need the canvas's context in order to draw anything. This could be passed via a prop to all child components, but this approach can become tedious when children are deeply nested"

> Now, how could we extract this logic into its own `Hexagon` component ? We need the canvas' context to draw anything on it. We could pass it to all the child components via a prop, but this approach can be a bit tedious when children are nested. Another way of doing this is by using a [React context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) to share "global" values between components.

Reviewer 2: the wording here is a bit off.

## 📦 A context in a context

> At this point the naming gets a bit tricky as we are trying to share a canvas' _context_ via a React _context_. Once we create a React context, we need to use the context's `Provider` to share a value. In the case of our `Canvas` component, which would look like this:

Reviewer: "it would look like this" (also remove the comma)

> At this point the naming gets a bit tricky, as we are trying to share a canvas' _context_ via a React _context_. Once we create a React context, we need to use the context's `Provider` to share a value. In the case of our `Canvas` component, this would look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point the naming gets a bit tricky as we are trying to share a canvas' _context_ via a React _context_. Once we create a React context, we need to use the context's `Provider` to share a value. In the case of our `Canvas` component, which would look like this:
```

```jsx hexagons-30dkf src/Canvas.js
// we create a React context with a _null_ default value
const SharingContext = React.createContext(null);

const Canvas = props => {
  const canvasRef = React.useRef(null);
  const [renderingContext, setRenderingContext] = React.useState(null);

  // the canvas rendering context is not immediately avalaible
  // as the canvas node first needs to be added to the DOM by react
  React.useEffect(() => {
    const context2d = canvasRef.current.getContext('2d');
    setRenderingContext(context2d);
  }, []);

  return (
    <SharingContext.Provider value={renderingContext}>
      <canvas ref={canvasRef} />
      {/* the hexagons are passed through the `children` prop */}
      {props.children}
    </SharingContext.Provider>
  );
};
```

The `Hexagon` component needs to consume this React context to read its value – here with the `useContext` hook.

```jsx hexagons-30dkf src/Hexagon.js
const Hexagon = props => {
  // we get the rendering context by comsuming the React context
  const renderingContext = React.useContext(SharingContext);

  if (renderingContext !== null) {
    // hexagon drawing logic
  }
};
```

> Now, both our `Canvas` and `Hexagon` components are ready. We can display several random hexagons:

Reviewer: - Remove the comma
- "Now that both our components are ready we are able to display randomly-generated hexagons"

> Now, both our `Canvas` and `Hexagon` components are ready. We can display several random hexagons on the screen!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, both our `Canvas` and `Hexagon` components are ready. We can display several random hexagons on screen!
```

```jsx hexagons-30dkf src/App.js
const App = () => (
  <Canvas>
    {getRandomHexagons().map(hexagon => (
      <Hexagon {...hexagon} />
    ))}
  </Canvas>
);
```

The last thing we need is to animate the hexagons so that they rotate.

## 🎬 Animations

> As we saw, the canvas is like a sheet of paper: once we've drawn on it, we can't change it! But we can clear the canvas and re-draw on it. Animating on a canvas is like animating cartoons. It's a lots of draw, clean, draw, clean, repeat! To make a shape move, you need to split the movement into small steps, draw them one by one, while clearing the canvas between them. Those steps are called frames. Browsers come with an API `requestAnimationFrame` so that you can draw in each frame. 

Reviewer: - I'd use a dash here instead of a colon
- "once it's been drawn on, it can't be changed" 
- "However, a canvas can be cleared in order that something new can be draw on it. In that respect animating a canvas is somewhat like old-fashioned cartoon animation - we draw, clean, draw, clean and repeat until we achieve the desired effect" 
- " while clearing the canvas in-between"

> As we saw, the canvas is like a sheet of paper: once we've drawn on it, we can't change it! But we can clear the canvas and re-draw on it. Animating on a canvas is like animating cartoons. It's a lots of drawings quickly shown ones after the others! To make a shape move, we need to split the movement into small steps. Then, we can draw them one by one, while clearing the canvas between them. Those steps are called frames. Browsers come with an API so that we can draw in each frame: `requestAnimationFrame`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we saw, the canvas is like a sheet of paper: once we've drawn on it, we can't change it! But we can clear the canvas and re-draw on it. Animating on a canvas is like animating cartoons. It's a lots of draw, clean, draw, clean, repeat! To make a shape move, you need to split the movement into small steps, draw them one by one, while clearing the canvas between them. Those steps are called frames. Browsers come with an API so that you can draw in each frame: `requestAnimationFrame`.
```

### 🖼 Creating a frame loop

> First things first, the canvas should be cleared at each frame. The easiest way to do this is to have an internal state counting the frames. This way, the component re-renders at each frame:

Reviewer: - "First things first - the canvas should be cleared at the beginning of each frame"

```jsx animated-hexagons-v9j2q src/Canvas.js
const [frameCount, setFrameCount] = React.useState(0);
// this effect will increment frameCount by one at the next frame
// and is called every time frameCount changes, creating a recursive loop
// this makes the Canvas component re-render at every frame
React.useEffect(() => {
  const frameId = requestAnimationFrame(() => {
    setFrameCount(frameCount + 1);
  });
  return () => {
    cancelAnimationFrame(frameId);
  };
}, [frameCount, setFrameCount]);

// here's the clearing at every render — at every frame.
if (context !== null) {
  context.clearRect(0, 0, actualWidth, actualHeight);
}
```

> But... the canvas is now white! It's because the hexagons are only rendered once – when `<RandomHexagons />` is first rendered. Yet, the canvas is cleared at every frame, erasing the hexagons on the second frame. Children components should also draw in the canvas at every frame. To force them to re-render, one solution is to share the `frameCount` from the canvas with the `Hexagon` component. It's achieved via a React context, like we did with `SharingContext`:

Reviewer: - "It's because" => "This is because" 
- "This is because the hexagons are only rendered once - when `<RandomHexagons />` is first mounted. But, as the canvas is cleared on each frame, the hexagons are erased once the next render occurs"
- "Children components" => "Child components" 
- "Child components may also wish to draw in the canvas during a frame" 
- "It's achieved" => "This is achieved"

Author: I'm not sure about `may also wish` ? They _need_ to draw, it's not really an option.

Reviewer: "should" was conditional too :) How about "Child components that draw in the canvas on every frame must be forced to re-render. One solution ... "

Author: True ! It's better to merge with the next sentence indeed. Will do

> But... the canvas is now white! It's because we only render the hexagons once – when `<RandomHexagons />` is first rendered. Yet, the canvas is cleared at every frame, erasing the hexagons on the second frame. Children components should also draw in the canvas at every frame. To force them to re-render, one solution is to share the `frameCount` from the canvas with the `Hexagon` component. It's achieved via a React context, like we did with `SharingContext`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But... the canvas is now white! It's because the hexagons are only rendered once – when `<RandomHexagons />` is first rendered. Yet, the canvas is cleared at every frame, erasing the hexagons on the second frame. Children components should also draw in the canvas at every frame. To force them to re-render, one solution is to share the `frameCount` from the canvas with the `Hexagon` component. It's achieved via a React context, like we did with `SharingContext`:
```

```jsx
const FrameContext = React.createContext(0);

const Canvas = props => {
  // [...]
  return (
    <SharingContext.Provider value={renderingContext}>
      <FrameContext.Provider value={frameCount}>
        <canvas />
        {props.children}
      </FrameContext.Provider>
    </SharingContext.Provider>
  );
};
```

```jsx
const Hexagon = props => {
  const renderingContext = React.useContext(SharingContext);
  const frameCount = React.useContext(FrameContext);
  // drawing logic
};
```

> And now our hexagons are back on the screen! 🎉 While this works, the `FrameContext` has to be added in every child component. Two options are available to make sure those two contexts are being consumed together:

Reviewer: - "While this works" => "While this method works"
- "added in" => "added to"
- "being consumed together" = don't really understand this line

Author: What do you think about `Two options are available to make sure that this context is used everywhere `SharingContext` is also used:`

Reviewer: It would be "Two options are available to make sure that this context is used everywhere that SharingContext is"

> - We can regroup them in a single context, sharing both the `renderingContext` and the `frameCount`. But the `frameCount` variable is not used in the child components, so it does not make sense to share its value.

Reviewer: - "them in" => "them into"
- "a single context that shares both... "

> - or, we can create a `useCanvas` hook to hide this complexity away! Even when consuming both React contexts, the hook can only return the canvas rendering context to the child components:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Or, we can create a `useCanvas` hook to hide this complexity away! Even when consuming both React contexts, the hook can only return the canvas rendering context to the child components:
```

```jsx
export const useCanvas = () => {
  React.useContext(FrameContext);
  const renderingContext = React.useContext(CanvasContext);
  return renderingContext;
};
```

The `Hexagon` component logic now needs a small update to use this new hook:

```jsx
const Hexagon = props => {
  const renderingContext = useCanvas();
  // drawing logic
};
```

### 🔄 Making the hexagons move

> If we want the hexagons to rotate, each hexagon should have its rotation angle change at every frame-by incrementing it by 1 for example-. To do this, the hexagons needs to _remember_ the rotation from the previous render. We will use a [React ref](/react-refs-evolution) to achieve this:

Reviewer: - "should change its rotation angle at every frame"
- Add spaces around the dashes or, better, replace with parenthesis 
- Comma before "for example"

> We want the hexagons to rotate. It means that each hexagon should have its rotation angle change at every frame, by incrementing it by 1 for example. To do this, we need the hexagons to _remember_ the rotation from the previous render: we will need to use a [React ref](/react-refs-evolution):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we want the hexagons to rotate, each hexagon should have its rotation angle change at every frame-by incrementing it by 1 for example-. To do this, the hexagons needs to _remember_ the rotation from the previous render. We will use a [React ref](/react-refs-evolution) to achieve this:
```

```jsx
const animatedRotation = React.useRef(props.rotation);
animatedRotation.current = animatedRotation.current + 1;
```

> As the `Hexagon` component re-renders at every frame, this code makes its rotation  change at every frame: they rotate! 😍

Reviewer: - There's an extra space before "change"

> As the `Hexagon` component re-renders at every frame, this code makes its rotation  change at every frame: they rotate! 😍

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the `Hexagon` component re-renders at every frame, this code makes its rotation  change at every frame: they rotate! 😍
```

> Like we did with `useCanvas`, we can also improve a bit the readability of this code by hiding the implementation detail – here, using a React ref – in a hook:

Reviewer: - Remove "a bit" 
- "implementation details" (plural)

> Like we did with `useCanvas`, we can also improve a bit the readability of this code. We can hide the implementation detail – here, the use of a React ref – in a hook:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like we did with `useCanvas`, we can also improve a bit the readability of this code by hiding the implementation detail – here, using a React ref – in a hook:
```

```jsx animated-hexagons-v9j2q src/Canvas.js
const useAnimation = (initialValue, valueUpdater) => {
  const animatedValue = React.useRef(initialValue);
  animatedValue.current = valueUpdater(animatedValue.current);
  return animatedValue.current;
};
```

The `Hexagon` code now looks a bit better:

```jsx animated-hexagons-v9j2q src/Hexagon.js
const Hexagon = props => {
  // [...]
  const animatedRotation = useAnimation(props.rotation, angle => angle + 1);
  // drawing logic
};
```

👏 Congratulations 👏 We now have animated canvas-based React components! We even created two custom hooks along the way to make our code nicer.

## 👀 Going further

> - At some point it can become quite CPU heavy to try to animate a lot of shapes in a canvas. At this point, there's another more performant way to draw things: WebGL. It's a huge subject on its own! I would recommend you to look at how to write WebGL based components with [react-three-fiber](https://github.com/react-spring/react-three-fiber) _— spoiler alert, they made their own React reconciler_

Reviewer: - "It's a huge subject" => "This is a huge subject" 
- "If you want to write WebGL-based components, I would recommend using a library like ..."

> - At some point it can become quite CPU heavy to try to animate a lot of shapes in a canvas. At this point, there's another more performant way to draw things: WebGL. It's a huge subject on its own! I recommend to look at how we can write WebGL based components with [react-three-fiber](https://github.com/react-spring/react-three-fiber) _— spoiler alert, they made their own React reconciler_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- At some point it can become quite CPU heavy to try to animate a lot of shapes in a canvas. At this point, there's another more performant way to draw things: WebGL. It's a huge subject on its own! I would recommend you to look at how to write WebGL based components with [react-three-fiber](https://github.com/react-spring/react-three-fiber) _— spoiler alert, they made their own React reconciler_
```

> - Our `useAnimation` hook is not helping if we want to animate stuff other than infinitely changing numbers. To create more complex ones, [react-spring](https://github.com/react-spring/react-spring) is the library to go. It needs a bit of wiring to have it work with our own frame loop – [here's how it's done to work with `react-three-fiber` for example](https://github.com/react-spring/react-spring/blob/bdf8afb8b2d837fd756f8ffaae6931fb15c0e3d2/src/targets/three/index.ts#L24-L25).

Reviewer: - "Our `useAnimation` hook does not help if ... "
- "To create more complex things" 
- "library to go to" 
- "to make it work" 
- "Here's how to get it working with ... "

<div
  style={{
    height: '360px',
    width: '100%',
  }}
>
  <RandomHexagons isAnimating={true} />
</div>

A single hexagon can be defined with the folowing data:

- a position on the screen, defined by two `x` and `y` number values
- a `radius` that will define its size
- a `rotation` so that all hexagons don't look aligned
- and finally, a `color`

We need a function that is able to generate some random hexagons to display. As the randomization code is not really relevant here, we can just assume to have a `getRandomHexagons` function, returning an array with some random hexagons data in it. As for how to draw an hexagon on a canvas, we need to draw the shape of it by going trough all its corners, and then filling it with a color:

```jsx
// This article explains all the math behind hexagons
// https://www.redblobgames.com/grids/hexagons/
const corners = getHexagonCorners(x, y, radius, rotation);

context.beginPath();
corners.forEach((corner, index) => {
  if (index === 0) {
    context.moveTo(corner.x, corner.y);
  } else {
    context.lineTo(corner.x, corner.y);
  }
});
context.fillStyle = color;
context.fill();
```

> Now, how could we extract this logic into itw own `Hexagon` component ? We need the canvas' context to draw anything on it. We could pass it to all the child components via a prop, but this approach can be a bit tedious when children start to be nested. Another way of doing this is by using a [React context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) to share "global" values between components.

Reviewer 3: typo: `itw` => `its`

}
```

But... the canvas is now always white! It's because the hexagons are only rendered once (when `<RandomHexagons />` is first rendered) while the canvas is cleared every frame. Children components should also draw in the canvas at every frame. To force them to re-render, one solution is to share the `frameCount` from the canvas – via a React context, like we did with `SharingContext` – and consume it in the `Hexagon` component:

```jsx
const FrameContext = React.createContext(0);

const Canvas = props => {
  // [...]
  return (
    <SharingContext.Provider value={renderingContext}>
      <FrameContext.Provider value={frameCount}>
        <canvas />
        {props.children}
      </FrameContext.Provider>
    </SharingContext.Provider>
  );
};
```

```jsx
const Hexagon = props => {
  const renderingContext = React.useContext(SharingContext);
  const frameCount = React.useContext(FrameContext);
  // drawing logic
};
```

And now our hexagons are back on the screen! 🎉 While this works, the `FrameContext` has to be properly added in every child component. Two options are available to make sure those two contexts are being consumed together:

> - We can regroup them in a single context that would share both the `renderingContext` and the `frameCount` at the same time. But the `frameCount` variable is not used in the child components, so it does not really make sense to share its value.

Reviewer 3: Typo: `child` => `children`

- or, we can create a `useCanvas` hook to hide this complexity away! The hook would consume both React contexts, while only returning the canvas rendering context to the child components:

```jsx
export const useCanvas = () => {
  React.useContext(FrameContext);
  const renderingContext = React.useContext(CanvasContext);
  return renderingContext;
};
```

The `Hexagon` component logic now needs a small update to use this new hook instead of the context consumer:

```jsx
const Hexagon = props => {
  const renderingContext = useCanvas();
  // drawing logic
};
```

### 🔄 Making the hexagons move

> We want the hexagons to slowly rotate. It means that each hexagon should have its rotation angle slightly change at every frame, by incrementing it by 1 for example. To do this, we need the hexagons to _remember_ the rotation from the previous render: we will need to use a [React ref](/react-refs-evolution) to handle this:

Reviewer 3: `change` => `changed`

```jsx
const animatedRotation = React.useRef(props.rotation);
animatedRotation.current = animatedRotation.current + 1;
```

As the `Hexagon` component re-renders at every frame, this code will make its rotation slightly change at every frame: it's making them slowly rotate! 😍

Just like we did with `useCanvas`, we can also improve a bit the readability of this code by hiding its complexity – here, the use of a React ref – in a hook:

```jsx animated-hexagons-v9j2q src/Canvas.js
const useAnimation = (initialValue, valueUpdater) => {
  const animatedValue = React.useRef(initialValue);
  animatedValue.current = valueUpdater(animatedValue.current);
  return animatedValue.current;
};
```

The `Hexagon` code now looks a bit better:

```jsx animated-hexagons-v9j2q src/Hexagon.js
const Hexagon = props => {
  // [...]
  const animatedRotation = useAnimation(props.rotation, angle => angle + 1);
  // drawing logic
};
```

> 👏 Congratulations 👏 We now have animated canvas-based React components! We even created a two custom hooks along the way to make our code nicer. Here's a couple links to see the end result put together:

Reviewer 3: `created a two` => `created two`
